# Fall 2012
Solving questions in random order.

## Question 1

A particular system has 17-bit virtual addresses, 20-bit physical addresses and a 1024 byte page size.

1. How many bits are needed for the offset?
2. How many virtual pages can a process have?
3. How many physical page frames can the system have?
4. If page table entries include Valid, Dirty, Referenced, Read, Write and Execute bits. What is the minimum size of a page table entry?

## Solution
1. 2<sup>10</sup>
2. 2<sup>17-10</sup> = 2 <sup>7</sup> = 128
3. 2<sup>20-10</sup> = 2 <sup>10</sup>= 1024
4. 10+6 = 16

## Question 2
Suppose that a computer system consists of a processor that uses 50 bit virtual addresses and its paging hardware supports 16 KB page frames. The size of each page table entry is 4 bytes. Each entry has a valid bit, a referenced bit, a dirty bit and three bits for protection that are located in the high order bits of the entry. If a question below asks you to calculate a size, show the size in a human readable unit (e.g., KB, MB or GB).
## Question 2.A
If the paging hardware used a single-level page table, calculate the total size of the page table.
## Solution

- Page size = 16KB = 2<sup>14</sup> so page offset has 14 bits.
- Number of pages = 2<sup>50-14</sup> = 2<sup>36</sup>
- Page table size = 2<sup>36</sup> x 4 bytes = 2<sup>38</sup> = 2<sup>30</sup> is approx 1 GB. so 2<sup>8</sup> = 256 GB


## Question 2.B
Design a multi-level page table for the paging hardware. Ensure that each page table fits within a page frame. Draw a diagram with the page tables and physical memory that clearly shows how address translation would work in your design.

## Question 2.C
Calculate the maximum size of physical memory that can be supported by this system.

## Solution
- Frame offset = 14 bits
- PTE has 32 bits. It has 1 bit for valid, 1 for reference, 1 for dirty and 3 for protection. 
- So the maximum frame number can have 32-6=26 bits.
- So maximum size of physical memory supported = 2<sup>26+14</sup> = 2<sup>40</sup> = 2 TB

## Question 2.D
Suppose that there are currently 8 processes that are executing in the system. Each process is using 2 MB of memory and no pages are swapped to disk. Calculate the approximate maximum amount of memory that your multi-level page table could be using at this time? Would the multi-level page table fit in memory?