# Depth-Frist Search BFS
To overcome the memory limitations of `BFS`, the `DFS` algorithm, uses a *stack* which follows the `LIFO` structure, so `nodes` or `states` are added at the top of the list and it gets rid of the `Visited` set.

## Show me the code 🤓
The script is [here](Scripts/2_3_DFS.py)

```py
def dfs(start, goal, next_states):
    Stack = [start]
    Parent = {start: start}
    while len(Stack) > 0:
        state = Stack.pop()
        for ns in next_states(state):
            if ns not in Parent:
                Parent[ns] = state
                Stack.append(ns)
            if ns == goal:
                return path_to(start, goal, Parent)
```



## How does it work?
1. A `path` is searched to its end, before trying an alternative one, allowing us to find a `goal` that is far away from start without having to explore the entire state space.
2. Any *states* that are encountered during the search are placed on top of the *stack* `Stack`.
3. We use the *dictionary* `Parent` to keep information about the states added to the `Stack`.
   - For every *state* `s` that is in `Stack`, `Parent[s]` returns a *state* `p` such that `s ∈ next_states(p)`.
    - `p` represents the *state* that is right before `s` on the path from `start` to `s`.
4. At the beginning, `Stack` only contains the *state* `Start`.
5. As long as `Stack` isn't empty, the *state* on top of `Stack` is replaced by all states that are reachable from it.
   - To prevent going in circles, only the states `ns` from the set `next_states(state)` that haven't been explored are added.
     - That is done by checking whether `ns` is in the domain of `Parent`.
6. When `goal` is reached, we return the path from `start` to `goal`. 

## Important Information 
- `DFS` is not a complete search. It might get stuck in a long branch or an infinite branch if there is no *cycle checking*.
- Uses much less memory than `BFS` and can find the solution without examining much of the search space.
- `DFS` is not optimal, won't find shortest solutions.
- Running complexity is proportional to the number of states.
- Memory complexxity is `O(bm)`, where `b` is the branching factor and `m` is the maximum depth of the search tree.
## Recursive Depth-First Search
The DFS algorithm can be done recursively which is shorter and easier to understand. Using this [recursive version](Scripts/2_3_Recursive_DFS.py) allows us to get rid of the *dictionary* `Parent`.
```py
def rec_dfs(start, goal, next_states):
    return dfs(start, goal, next_states, [start], {start})


def dfs(state, goal, next_states, Path, PathSet):
    if state == goal:
        return Path
    for ns in next_states(state):
        if ns not in PathSet:
            PathSet.add(ns)
            Result = dfs(ns, goal, next_states, Path + [ns], PathSet)
            if Result != None:
                return Result
            PathSet.remove(ns)
        return None
```

### Explanation
1. `Path` is a path leading from the `start` *state* to the **current state**, that is the first argument of the function `dfs`.
2. `PathSet` is a *set* containing all the elements of the list `Path`.
    - This is used to avoid infinite loops. When we discover a *node*, we want to check if it wasn't already in `Path` but checking a *list* is much slower than checking a *set*.
3. If `state` is equal to `goal`. Search is successful.
4. If not, `next_states(state)` is the *set* of states that are reachable.
   - Any of the *states* `ns` in this *set* could be the next *state* on a path that leads to `goal`. So we try recursively to reach `goal` from every *state* `ns`.
5. We change `Path` to the list `Path + [ns]` when we call `dfs` recursively, to keep that the list `Path` is a path connecting `start` with current state.
6. We still have to avoid running in circles. In the recursive version of depth first search, this is achieved by checking that the state `ns` is not already a member of the list `Path`. In the non-recursive version of depth first search, we used the set `Parent` instead. 
7. If one of the recursive calls of `dfs` returns a list. This list is a solution.
8. If `None` is returned, the loops continues and checks other successors of `state`.
    - If it can't find a path, we remove the state `ns` from the `PathSet`
    - If it reaches the end of the for loop and no solution has been found, return `None`.